>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, OCTOBER 16:
THE VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
TAKE TO THE AIRWAVES TO MAKE THE
CASE FOR THEIR RUNNING MATES.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, IF
CALIFORNIA LEGALIZES
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA ON
ELECTION DAY, WILL THE REST OF
THE NATION FOLLOW?
AND, EXAMINING THE ROLE OF THE
U.S. MILITARY IN YEMEN'S CIVIL
WAR.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WITH THREE WEEKS LEFT IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN,
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE HILLARY
CLINTON LEADS REPUBLICAN DONALD
TRUMP IN OPINION POLLS AND FUNDS
TO FINISH THE RACE.
A WASHINGTON POST-ABC NEWS POLL
TODAY SHOWS CLINTON PREFERRED BY
47% OF LIKELY VOTERS TO 43% FOR
TRUMP.
THAT'S IN A FOUR PERSON RACE
WITH LIBERTARIAN GARY JOHNSON
AND GREEN PARTY CANDIDATE JILL
STEIN.
A "WALL STREET JOURNAL-NBC NEWS"
POLL SHOWS A WIDER LEAD, OF 11
PERCENTAGE POINTS, IN A FOUR
PERSON RACE.
TODAY, CLINTON'S RUNNING MATE,
SENATOR TIM KAINE OF VIRGINIA,
SAID HE LIKES WHERE SHE STANDS
AGAINST TRUMP.
>> HE'S BLAMING THE MEDIA, HE'S
BLAMING THE GOP, HE'S SAYING
THAT AMERICA CAN'T RUN A FAIR
ELECTION.
HE IS SWINGING AT EVERY PHANTOM
OF HIS OWN IMAGINATION, BECAUSE
HE KNOWS HE'S LOSING.
>> Sreenivasan: IN CASH ON HAND,
THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN AND PARTY
COMMITTEES SUPPORTING HER HAD
150 MILLION DOLLARS ENTERING
OCTOBER- THAT'S DOUBLE THE
$75 MILLION REPORTED THIS
WEEKEND BY THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
AND PARTY COMMITTEES BACKING
HIM.
NEITHER CLINTON NOR TRUMP HAD
PUBLIC APPEARANCES TODAY.
BOTH SAID TO BE PREPARING FOR
THEIR FINAL DEBATE WEDNESDAY IN
LAS VEGAS.
THE POLLS SHOW SLIPPAGE IN
SUPPORT FOR TRUMP IN THE WAKE OF
A 2005 VIDEO REVEALING HIM
TALKING CRUDELY AND AGGRESSIVELY
ABOUT WOMEN, AND ALLEGATIONS BY
WOMEN WHO SAY TRUMP MADE
UNWANTED SEXUAL ADVANCES ON
THEM.
TODAY, TRUMP'S RUNNING MATE,
INDIANA GOVERNOR MIKE PENCE,
SAID THOSE CLAIMS ARE GETTING
TOO MUCH ATTENTION AND CLINTON'S
STATE DEPARTMENT EMAILS, TOO
LITTLE.
>> I MEAN, WE DISCOVERED THIS
WEEK THAT STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS ACTUALLY DIRECTED
CONTRACTS FOR THE HAITIAN
RECOVERY EFFORTS AFTER THE
EARTHQUAKE TO FRIENDS OF THE
CLINTONS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CLINTON
FOUNDATION HAS SAID ITS
SUPPORTERS RECEIVED NO SPECIAL
TREATMENT FOR REBUILDING
CONTRACTS AFTER THE 2010
EARTHQUAKE IN HAITI.
FOR MORE ANALYSIS OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE, I AM JOINED
NOW BY "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JEFF
GREENFIELD, WHO IS IN SANTA
BARBARA, CALIFORNIA.
JEFF, IT SEEMS IN THE PAST FEW
NEWS CYCLES, WE'VE KIND OF SEEN
DONALD TRUMP TAKE CENTER STAGE
FOR ALL THE ALLEGATIONS AND
ACCUSATIONS MADE AGAINST HIM.
AND WE'VE ACTUALLY SEEN HILLARY
CLINTON KIND OF QUIETLY DRIFT
OFF TO THE SIDE.
NOW SHE'S IN DEBATE PREP MODE.
>> IT MAY BE SHE'S FOLLOWING AN
OLD LINE, NAPOLEON SAID IT NEVER
INTERFERE WITH YOUR OPPONENT
WHEN HE'S IN THE PROCESS OF
DESTROYING HIMSELF.
IT'S NOT HOPEFUL TO THE TROUBLE
CAMPAIGN TO HAVE ENDLESS
ALLEGATIONS.
THE QUESTION IS JUST HOW MUCH
HE'S BEEN HURT.
THIS IS ONE OF THE AREAS IF
YOU'RE OBSESSED WITH THIS
CAMPAIGN AND READ EVERY POLL
YOUR HEAD'S GOING TO EXPLODE
BECAUSE THE WASHINGTON POST HAS
TRUMP ONLY FOUR POINTS DOWN AND
THE JOURNAL POLL HAS HIM 11
DOWN. THE QUESTION IS WHAT'S
GOING ON IN THE STATES.
IF YOU'RE A TRUMP SUPPORT YOU
TAKE HEART THAT IN OHIO AND
IOWA HE'S RELATIVELY CLOSE.
IF YOU'RE A CLINTON SUPPORTER
SHE SEEMS TO BE OPENED UP A HUGE
LEAD AND MORE TO THE POINT, IF
YOU LOOK AT ALL THE BATTLE
GROUND STATES TRUMP'S PATH OF
THE ELECTORAL VOTE SEEMS MORE
AND MORE TRICKY.
THAT'S WHY THE ODDS ON HIM
LOSING HAVE NOW GONE UP 10 TO
15% CHANCE OF WINNING.
WHILE IN THE DEBATE HE'S GOT TO
TRY TO FIGURE OUT A WAY TO GO
BEYOND HIS BASE.
>> Reporter: WHAT ARE YOU
EXPECTING IN THE DEBATE GIVEN
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE LAST ONE.
>> THE FIRST DEBATE I WATCHED
WASN'T NIXON KENNEDY.
IT WAS KENNEDY HUMPHREY IN WEST
VIRGINIA.
I THINK I'VE SEEN EVERY SINGLE
DEBATE AND I LITERALLY DON'T
KNOW.
TRUMP SEEMS TO BE DOUBLING DOWN
ON THE KIND OF THE MOST EXTREME
ARGUMENT THAT THE WHOLE PROCESS
IS RIGGED.
THAT CLINTON IS CONSPIRING WITH
INTERNATIONAL BANKERS WHICH BY
THE WAY HAS AN UNPLEASANT ECHO
1930'S TALKING ABOUT
LOWEST PEOPLE MEANING JEWISH
PEOPLE.
WHETHER TRUMP KNOWS IT OR KNOW
THAT'S WHAT THAT IS.
SO I SUSPECT HE'S GOING TO GO
RIGHT BACK AT THE LINE SHE OUGHT
TO BE IN JAIL AND HE WILL TRY TO
RAISE THE ISSUE OF BILL
CLINTON'S SEXUALLY PREDATORY
BEHAVIOR THAT WOMEN HAVE ACCUSED
HIM OF.
IN HER CASE, YOU KNOW, THE
QUESTION IS WHETHER OR NOT SHE
HAS TO RESPOND TO SOME OF THE
STUFF THAT WIKI LEAKS HAVE SHOWN
THAT I HAVE I, WOULD HAVE CAST
HER INTO SOME DOUBT WERE IT NOT
FOR THE FACT THAT TRUMP HAS
DOMINATED THE STORIES AS YOU
SAID.
>> Reporter: IS HE MISSING
OPPORTUNITIES, GIVEN THAT
WIKILEAKS HAS PROVIDED A STEADY
STREAM OF INSIGHT INTO HOW
PEOPLE INSIDE HER OWN CAMPAIGN
WERE THINKING ABOUT ISSUES AND
ALSO THINKING ABOUT THE
CANDIDATE.
>> YES.
THAT'S WHAT I MEAN WHEN I SAY
NOT FOR TRUMP AND DOMINATING IN
A NEGATIVE WAY THE STAGE, SHE
COULD HAVE SOME PROBLEMS.
TAKE FOR INSTANCE THE TRANSCRIPT
OF HER SPEECHES TO GOLDMAN
SACHS.
THEY SAY EXACTLY WHAT SOME OF
HER CRITICS THOUGHT THEY WOULD.
BUT IN PRIVATE WHEN SHE'S
TALKING TO THESE 1% OF 1%
PEOPLE, SHE'S MUCH MORE
SYMPATHETIC TO WALL STREET AND
THE ELITE THAN HER PUBLIC PAWS
PAWS -- POSTURE.
IF BERNIE SANDERS AT THAT IN THE
PRIMARIES.
THERE ARE COMMENTS FROM ONLY OF
HER STAFFERS THAT IS NOT
CONTEMPTUOUS AND KIND OF
SKEPTICAL ABOUT CATHOLICS.
THAT'S NOT A HELPFUL NOTION.
THERE'S ALSO THE NOTION THEY
KEEP STRUGGLING TO FIND OUT,
REMEMBER THESE ARE PEOPLE IN HER
CAMPAIGN SAYING WELL WHAT'S AT
THE CORE OF HER ARGUMENT.
WHICH IS WAY IN THAT DEBATE, I
THINK IT WOULD BE REALLY
IMPORTANT TO TRY TO GO BEYOND
SAYING I'M NOT TRUMP AND SAY BUT
HERE'S WHO I AM AT HEART AND
HERE'S WHY I'M ON YOUR SIDE.
>> Reporter: FINALLY BRIEFLY
DO YOU THINK THIS NOTION OF THE
END OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY OR
THE CIVIL WAR HAS BEEN OVERBLOWN
OR DOES IT HAVE LIFE HERE.
>> THE POINT IS IT'S BEEN AROUND
FOR 150 PLUS YEARS AND PROBABLY
NOT GOING TO GO AWAY.
I DO THINK THE WE ASSUME TRUMP
IS GOING TO LOSE THIS ELECTION,
THESE GOING TO BE A SERIES
BATTLE WITHIN THE -- SERIOUS
BATTLE WITHIN THE PARTY BECAUSE
PEOPLE WHO DON'T LIKE TRUMP IN
THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY, THE
PARTY ESTABLISHMENT HAS NOT
REALLY SPOKEN TO SOME OF THE
ISSUE THAT HAVE DRIVEN SO MANY
OF OUR PEOPLE INTO THE TRUMP
CAMP.
>> Reporter: ALL RIGHT, JEFF
GREENFIELD, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS ELECTION
DAY, FIVE STATES WILL VOTE ON
LEGALIZING MARIJUANA FOR
RECREATIONAL USE, WITH OPINION
POLLS SUGGESTING THEY WILL JOIN
FOUR OTHER STATES, PLUS
WASHINGTON D.C., WHERE IT'S
ALREADY LEGAL TO GROW, BUY, AND
SELL POT FOR RECREATIONAL USE.
AMONG THE STATES VOTING NOVEMBER
8TH IS THE NATION'S LARGEST,
CALIFORNIA.
WITH MEDICAL MARIJUANA ALREADY
APPROVED IN CALIFORNIA AND HALF
THE 50 STATES, PRO-LEGALIZATION
FORCES SAY CALIFORNIA'S VOTE ON
RECREATIONAL POT COULD LEAD TO
THE DAY WHEN BUYING POT IN THE
U.S. WILL BE NO DIFFERENT THAN
BUYING A BOTTLE OF WINE.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT MIKE TAIIBI LOOKS
AT BOTH SIDES OF THE DEBATE.
>> Reporter: BEYOND A WINDING
COUNTRY ROAD OUT OF THE
MOUNTAINS IN CENTRAL CALIFORNIA,
A HALF-HOUR DRIVE FROM A STORE
OF ANY KIND, 63-YEAR-OLD FARMER
SIMON CALEB TENDS HIS CROP.
>> WE BOUGHT SEED FROM A GUY
IN TOWN.
>> Reporter: HIS CROP, FOR MORE
THAN 25 YEARS-- MARIJUANA.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA, HE SAYS.
HIS GROW OPERATION, WELL LET'S
SAY, DISCREET.
>> I GUESS I LIKE THE THRILL OF
KIND OF BEING ON THE OTHER SIDE.
>> A TOUCH OF OUTLAW?
>> A TOUCH OF OUTLAW, YEAH.
NON-CONFORMIST, I GUESS.
>> Reporter: IN THE 20 YEARS
SINCE MEDICAL MARIJUANA WAS
APPROVED HERE FARMERS LIKE CALEB
SAY THEIR COTTAGE INDUSTRY HAS
BEEN OPERATING IN A LEGAL GRAY
AREA WHERE FEDERAL LAW AND LOCAL
REGULATIONS ARE AT
IRRECONCILABLE ODDS WITH EACH
OTHER.
NOW, ON ELECTION DAY, THAT LEGAL
TENSION COULD RATCHET UP EVEN
HIGHER: CALIFORNIA WILL DECIDE
WHETHER TO LEGALIZE RECREATIONAL
MARIJUANA THROUGH PROPOSITION
64, THE ADULT USE OF MARIJUANA
ACT.
THE 62-PAGE INITIATIVE COMES
DOWN TO THIS:
FOR CONSUMERS: THE ABILITY TO
POSSESS, TRANSPORT, PURCHASE,
AND USE UP TO ONE OUNCE OF THE
DRUG, AND TO CULTIVATE UP TO SIX
LIVING PLANTS.
FOR GROWERS: A PROHIBITION ON
LARGE SCALE CULTIVATION LICENSES
FOR THE FIRST FIVE YEARS TO
DISCOURAGE A GOLD RUSH BY GIANT
CORPORATE INTERESTS.
FOR THE STATE: AN ADDITIONAL 15%
TAX ON ALL POT PURCHASES, ON TOP
OF SALES TAX, WITH PROJECTED NEW
REVENUE IN THE BILLIONS EVERY
YEAR EARMARKED FOR YOUTH DRUG
AWARENESS AND TREATMENT PROGRAMS
AS WELL AS LAW ENFORCEMENT.
THE MOST OUTSPOKEN SUPPORTER OF
PROP 64 IS LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
GAVIN NEWSOM.
>> I'M JUST ANTI-PROHIBITION.
I'M VEHEMENTLY ANTI-PROHIBITION.
I THINK PROHIBITION HAS DONE
MORE HARM THAN THE DRUG ITSELF.
THAT'S MY CRUSADE.
>> Reporter: BUT PROP 64'S
OPPONENTS HAVE THEIR OWN
CRUSADE.
>> AND IF YOU'RE IN AN INDUSTRY
THAT IS SELLING THIS STUFF.
>> Reporter: KEVIN SABET IS A
PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY AND HAS
ADVISED THREE PRESIDENTS ON DRUG
POLICY.
HE NOW HEADS A NATIONWIDE ANTI-
LEGALIZATION GROUP THAT
ADVOCATES FOR PUBLIC HEALTH
BASED APPROACHES TO MARIJUANA
REGULATION.
>> WHAT THIS IS ABOUT IS NOT
ADULTS SMOKING A JOINT IN THE
PRIVACY OF THEIR OWN HOME.
THIS IS ABOUT THE MASS
COMMERCIALIZATION OF MARIJUANA
BY FOR-PROFIT COMPANIES.
>> Reporter: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
IS ALREADY AN INDUSTRY
GENERATING HUGE PROFITS, NEARLY
THREE BILLION DOLLARS IN
CALIFORNIA LAST YEAR.
>> LET ME SEE YOUR ID TOO.
>> Reporter: DEREK PETERSON'S
BLUM DISPENSARY IN OAKLAND SITS
JUST OFF A HIGHWAY OFF-RAMP, AND
THE TRAFFIC INSIDE IS BUMPER TO
BUMPER.
>> WE SEE ANYWHERE FROM 900 TO A
THOUSAND PEOPLE A DAY, ABOUT $13
MILLION A YEAR IN REVENUE OUT OF
THIS STORE, AND THAT'S JUST WITH
THE MEDICAL PROGRAM IN PLACE.
>> Reporter: RIGHT NOW, 25
STATES ALLOW THE SALE AND USE OF
MEDICAL MARIJUANA; FOUR STATES
PLUS THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
HAVE ALREADY LEGALIZED
RECREATIONAL USE, AND BESIDES
CALIFORNIA, FOUR MORE STATES
WILL VOTE ON LEGALIZED
RECREATIONAL POT ON ELECTION
DAY.
BUT BOTH SIDES AGREE--
CALIFORNIA, WITH ITS 39 MILLION
RESIDENTS AND THE WORLD'S 6th
LARGEST ECONOMY, IS THE LYNCHPIN
THAT COULD LOCK UP THE WEST
COAST FOR LEGALIZED POT AND LEAD
TO THE END OF ANY MEANINGFUL
MARIJUANA PROHIBITION IN THE
U.S.
>> I THINK IF CALIFORNIA GOES,
IT'S A DOMINO EFFECT FOR THE
REST OF THE NATION.
>> THEY SEE CALIFORNIA AS A
MASSIVE ECONOMIC POWERHOUSE, AS
A MASSIVE PLACE WHERE THEIR
COMMERCIALIZED MARIJUANA CAN
MAKE MONEY.
>> Reporter: LAW ENFORCEMENT
ALSO OPPOSES LEGALIZATION FOR
RECREATIONAL POT.
MIKE BOUDREAUX IS SHERIFF IN
CENTRAL CALIFORNIA'S TULARE
COUNTY.
>> I JUST CAN'T, IN GOOD
JUDGMENT, BELIEVE THAT IF WE
MAKE IT LEGAL THAT OUR COMMUNITY
WILL BE SAFER.
>> Reporter: SHERIFF BOUDREAUX
SAYS THAT LAST YEAR ALONE HIS
DEPARTMENT SHUT DOWN MORE THAN
300 ILLEGAL MARIJUANA GROW
OPERATIONS, AND HE SAYS, A
NUMBER OF THOSE WERE LINKED TO
CRIMINAL DRUG TRAFFICKING
OPERATIONS.
>> OUR RESOURCES ARE DRAWN VERY
THIN IN THE FIGHT AGAINST THESE
MARIJUANA CARTELS AND DRUG
TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS.
THERE'S VIOLENCE THAT COMES
ALONG WITH THAT.
IN 2011, THERE WERE NINE OF OUR
18 HOMICIDES THAT WERE DIRECTLY
RELATED TO MARIJUANA GROW SITES.
>> Reporter: HE IS ALSO
CONCERNED ABOUT MARIJUANA-
IMPAIRED DRIVING.
FOR EXAMPLE, IN WASHINGTON
STATE, IN ITS FIRST YEAR OF
LEGAL MARIJUANA SALES, THE
PERCENTAGE OF DRIVERS INVOLVED
IN FATAL CRASHES WHO HAD
MARIJUANA IN THEIR SYSTEM MORE
THAN DOUBLED FROM 8% IN 2013 TO
17% IN 2014, THAT ACCORDING TO
TRIPLE-A AND THE STATE'S TRAFFIC
SAFETY COMMISSION.
BUT RESEARCHERS ARE HESITANT TO
DRAW ANY CONCLUSIONS, BECAUSE
THERE'S NO CLEAR METHOD FOR
COLLECTING THIS DATA AND NO
RELIABLE TEST FOR WHEN DRIVERS
BECOME IMPAIRED FROM USING
MARIJUANA.
MARIJUANA CAN STAY IN YOUR
BLOODSTREAM FOR WEEKS.
LOS ANGELES POLICE OFFICER
KAMARON SARDAR SAYS POLICE ARE
STILL SEARCHING FOR A TOOL LIKE
A BREATHALYZER TO MEASURE
MARIJUANA USE AND IMPAIRMENT.
THE LAPD IS TESTING THIS ORAL
FLUID DEVICE.
>> IT COLLECTS JUST SALIVA FROM
THE MOUTH, IS THAT IT?
>> CORRECT, SALIVA AND ANY
DEBRIS IN THERE.
>> Reporter: ON THE GROWERS'
SIDE, SIMON CALEB HAS BEEN
SHOWING UP AT MEETINGS ABOUT
PROP 64 BECAUSE HE WANTS TO MAKE
SURE HE COMPLIES WITH ANY NEW
REGULATIONS THAT MAY BE COMING.
BUT EVEN SO, IT MAY SURPRISE YOU
TO LEARN-- HE DOES NOT SUPPORT
THE INITIATIVE.
>> I AM OPPOSED TO IT.
I DON'T LIKE THE IDEA THAT BIG
BUSINESS IS GOING TO BE ABLE TO
COME IN.
I THINK THE WHOLE INDUSTRY IS
GOING TO CHANGE.
IT'S GOING TO STOP FROM LOCAL
FARMERS, THE COTTAGE INDUSTRY,
IT'S GOING TO BE BIG BUSINESS
AND THE QUALITY WILL GO DOWN.
>> Reporter: ON HIS TEN MILE
STRETCH OF COUNTRY ROAD, HE
SAYS, THE NUMBER OF SIMILAR GROW
OPERATIONS KNOWN TO LAW
ENFORCEMENT IS MIND-BOGGLING.
>> 237 THAT THEY KNOW OF.
>> THAT'S A PRECISE NUMBER.
SO THEY KNOW THERE'S A MARIJUANA
GROW OPERATIONS?"
>> YES.
IT'S GOING TO BE TOO MANY FOR
THE AREA, TOO MANY FOR THE WHOLE
MARKET.
>> Reporter: AND THEN THERE'S
THAT ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM:
WHATEVER CALIFORNIA AND OTHER
STATES DECIDE, THE FEDERAL DRUG
ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION STILL
LISTS MARIJUANA AS A SCHEDULE
ONE DRUG, AMONG THE MOST
DANGEROUS, ALONG WITH HEROIN,
LSD, AND ECSTASY.
BUYING AND SELLING POT REMAINS A
CRIME UNDER FEDERAL-- AND MOST
STATE-- LAWS.
THE RESULT, SAY LEGALIZATION
ADVOCATES, MORE THAN 700,000
ARRESTS EVERY YEAR FOR
MARIJUANA-RELATED OFFENSES, MANY
FOR MERE POSSESSION AND
PRIMARILY AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND
LATINOS.
LYNNE LYMAN IS THE CALIFORNIA
STATE DIRECTOR FOR THE PRO-
LEGALIZATION DRUG POLICY
ALLIANCE.
>> WE HAVE THE DATA THAT SHOWS
THAT BLACK, WHITE, LATINO, WE
ALL USE AND SELL DRUGS ROUGHLY
AT THE SAME RATE, AND YET ANY
JURISDICTION IN THIS COUNTRY,
CERTAINLY IN CALIFORNIA, YOU
WILL SEE THAT THE PEOPLE WE
ARREST AND INCARCERATE FOR DRUG
OFFENSES ARE BLACK AND BROWN.
>> IT'S ABOUT A WAR ON DRUGS
THAT'S AN ABJECT FAILURE.
I WANT TO END IT, WANT TO END IT
IN THIS COUNTRY.
AND I WANT TO REDUCE THE COST TO
THE TAXPAYERS.
I WANT PEOPLE TO OPERATE
LEGALLY, AND I WANT THEM TO BE
ACCOUNTABLE AND RESPONSIBLE.
>> Reporter: ANTI-LEGALIZATION
ACTIVIST KEVIN SABET DOES
SUPPORT DECRIMINALIZATION FOR
THE CONSUMER AS THE MIDDLE
GROUND BETWEEN LEGALIZATION AND
PROHIBITION.
>> IF THEY WANT TO GROW A PLANT,
IF THEY WANT TO GET IT FROM A
FRIEND, I DON'T CARE, IF THEY
WANT TO GET IT AS A GIFT FROM
SOMEBODY, I DON'T CARE.
THE POINT IS, I DON'T THINK THE
SALES SHOULD BE LEGAL, BECAUSE I
THINK WHAT THAT BRINGS IS
ANOTHER TOBACCO INDUSTRY.
>> Reporter: SABET FEARS BIG
MARIJUANA IS LOOKING TO HOOK
BUYERS WHEN THEY'RE YOUNG, GIVEN
THE WAY MEDICAL MARIJUANA AND
ITS EDIBLE PRODUCTS ARE ALREADY
BEING MARKETED.
>> THEY LOOK LIKE GUMMY BEARS
THEY'RE CALLED GUMMY BEARS.
THEY'VE GOT LOLLIPOPS.
>> YUP.
>> THINGS THAT KIDS LIKE.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, OPPONENTS
INSIST LEGALIZATION FOR
RECREATIONAL USE ALL BUT
GUARANTEES A PARENT'S WORST
NIGHTMARE- THE NORMALIZATION OF
POT USE, EVEN FOR CHILDREN.
>> THE LAST THING THEY WANT TO
SEE THEIR KIDS GET INVOLVED IN
IS A DRUG THAT ESSENTIALLY MAKES
YOU DROP OUT OF LIFE, A DRUG
THAT MAKES YOU NOT CARE ABOUT
ANYTHING IF YOU'RE USING IT
EVERY DAY.
>> YOU CAN SMOKE 15 JOINTS A
DAY, YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
OVERDOSE, YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
FIND YOUR CHILD ON THE FLOOR
CONVULSING AND HAVE TO RUSH HIM
TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM.
IT'S JUST NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> Reporter: LEGALIZATION
SUPPORTERS POINT TO THE
NETHERLANDS, WHERE A 2014
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" REPORT SHOWED
RECREATIONAL POT USE IN
SO-CALLED "COFFEE HOUSES," WHERE
CUSTOMERS SMOKE OPENLY, HAS BEEN
TOLERATED FOR 40 YEARS WITH NO
MEASURABLE INCREASE IN THE USE
OF HARDER DRUGS.
DEREK PETERSON SAYS THE
PROLIFERATION OF MEDICAL
MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES LIKE HIS
AND THE EASE OF GETTING A
MEDICAL MARIJUANA CARD HAVE
ALREADY LOWERED THE BAR FOR
ANYONE IN CALIFORNIA WHO JUST
WANTS POT.
>> IT IS VERY
QUASI-RECREATIONAL.
ANYBODY THAT TELLS YOU
OTHERWISE IS, TO ME, BEING
DISHONEST.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN IT'S A BAD
THING.
YOU KNOW I RUN A PUBLICLY TRADED
COMPANY.
I HAVE 150 EMPLOYEES, I DEAL
WITH VERY COMPLICATED ISSUES,
I'M A VERY FUNCTIONAL
INDIVIDUAL.
I SMOKE ALMOST EVERY DAY.
>> Reporter: LEGALIZATION
ADVOCATE LYNN LYMAN SAYS MANY
CALIFORNIANS ALREADY TOLERATE
SUCH RECREATIONAL POT USE.
>> PEOPLE WHO LOOK LIKE ME FOR
WHITE PEOPLE MARIJUANA IS
PRACTICALLY LEGAL IN CALIFORNIA.
I CAN USE MY MARIJUANA ANYWHERE,
NOBODY EVER BOTHERS ME.
>> PROBABLY NOT IN A LOCAL
STARBUCKS.
>> OH, BELIEVE ME, I'VE DONE IT.
WELL, I HAVE A VAPE, SO IT HAS
NO SCENT BUT IF YOU ARE BLACK OR
BROWN THAT IS JUST NOT THE CASE.
>> Reporter: LEGALIZATION WOULD
BE A BONANZA FOR NEW POT
PRODUCTS, INCLUDING THE OILS FOR
LYMAN'S E-CIGARETTE VAPING
DEVICES AND, YES, THOSE EDIBLES
SOLD AT THE BLUM DISPENSARY.
WITH IMAGINATIVE CHEMISTS IN A
SEED-TO-SALE OPERATION, AND
LEGALIZATION IN OTHER STATES ON
THE HORIZON, PETERSON ENVISIONS
HIS BUSINESS BECOMING A MULTI-
STATE EMPIRE.
>> OUR SHORT TERM TRAJECTORY,
OVER THE NEXT 24 MONTHS, IS TO
GET THE COMPANY BETWEEN $50
MILLION, $75 MILLION IN REVENUE.
>> IN THE NEXT FOUR, FIVE YEARS,
YOU WILL BE THE R.J. REYNOLDS OF
THE POT BUSINESS.
>> HATE THAT COMPARISON BUT I
LIKE TO LOOK AT OUR COMPANY MORE
LIKE A BEN & JERRY'S TYPE OF AN
ORGANIZATION THAN SAY R.J.
REYNOLDS.
>> Reporter: BUT FOR SIMON CALEB
AND THOSE OTHER SMALL GROWERS
WHO'VE BEEN OPERATING IN THE
SHADOWS FOR YEARS, EVEN DECADES,
BECOMING STREET LEGAL IS A
REALLY COMPLICATED PROCESS.
COMPLICATED AND EXPENSIVE.
THERE'LL BE FEES TO THE COUNTY
AND THE STATE, INCOME AND
PAYROLL TAXES, WORKERS
COMPENSATION INSURANCE FOR HIS
EMPLOYEES, INSPECTIONS BY A HALF
DOZEN AGENCIES.
CALEB SAYS MANY OF HIS
NEIGHBORING FARMERS SAY, "FORGET
ABOUT IT.'
>> I'VE ONLY SEEN MAYBE TWO OF
THEM AT A MEETING.
THEY DON'T ATTEND; THEY'RE, I
GUESS, MAYBE BURYING THEIR HEAD
IN THE SAND, BUT IT'S COMING
AND WE HAVE TO BE PREPARED.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S.
MILITARY IS INVESTIGATING
WHETHER A THIRD MISSILE LAUNCHED
FROM INSIDE YEMEN WAS AIMED AT
AMERICAN NAVY SHIPS PATROLLING
THE RED SEA.
THE NAVY SAYS RADAR DETECTED A
POSSIBLE ATTACK ON THE U.S.S.
MASON LAST NIGHT, BUT NOTHING
STRUCK THE SHIP.
IN THE PAST WEEK, SHIITE REBELS
AT WAR WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF
YEMEN-- WHICH IS BACKED BY THE
U.S. AND SAUDI ARABIA-- TWICE
FIRED MISSILES AT U.S. SHIPS.
THE U.S. RESPONDED WITH CRUISE
MISSILE STRIKES ON REBEL
TERRITORY.
TO HELP US UNDERSTAND THE
SITUATION, I AM JOINED BY
BARBARA BODINE, THE U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO YEMEN FROM 1997 TO
2001, AND NOW WITH THE INSTITUTE
FOR THE STUDY OF DIPLOMACY AT
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.
AMBASSADOR, THIS IS A
COMPLICATED TENSION IN THE
MIDDLE EAST BUT NOT HAVE A LOT
OF PEOPLE HAVE BEEN PAYING TO
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENTIAL CYCLE
IS TAKING SO MUCH OF THE PRESS.
LAST WEEK WE REPORTED A HORRIBLE
ATTACK, AN AIR STRIKE THAT
KILLED 150, 140 PEOPLE, WOUNDED
HUNDREDS MORE.
AND THEN IT SEEMED TO ESCALATE
WHEN THEY WERE MISSILES FIRED AT
A U.S. SHIP.
>> RIGHT, RIGHT, EXACTLY.
THE ATTACK ON OUR SHIPS WAS
PROBABLY A DIRECT RETALIATION
FOR THE SAUDI BOMBING OF THE
FUNERAL HOUSE.
AND WE RESPONDED I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT THE NAVY
CHARACTERIZED IT AS A NARROW
ACT.
I THEY ARE WE ARE TRYING TO KEEP
IT FROM ESCALATING.
ESCALATING.
>> Reporter: OUR CONCERN
THERE HAS PRIMARILY BEEN
AL-QAEDA AND DIFFERENT FORCES ON
THE GROUND.
>> RIGHT.
>> Reporter: THE SAUDIS HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED FOR A DIFFERENT
REASON.
>> THE SAUDI'S STATED CONCERN,
THEY DON'T WANT TO ANY
GOVERNMENT BACKED ON THEIR
BORDER.
BUT THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR
18 MONTHS AND THE U.S. SUPPORT
FOR SAUDI ARABIA HAS ALSO BEEN
INCREASING.
WHAT IS NOT CLEAR TO A LOT OF US
IS REALLY WHAT THE SAUDI END
GAME IS.
WHAT IS IT THAT THEY ARE HOPING
TO ACHIEVE.
AND WHAT KIND OF A YEMEN THEY
ARE LOOKING TO HAVE ON THEIR
BORDER WHEN THIS IS OVER.
>> Reporter: SOME OF THEIR
CONCERNS MIGHT BE SORT OF A
SUNNI SUBMIT AND LONG A
PROXY WAR AGAINST IRAN.
>> THEY HAVE CALLED IT A PROXY
WAR WITH IRAN.
IT IS SOMEWHAT DISTORTED.
THIS IS AN INTERNAL CIVIL WAR
AND IT PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN
A VIOLENT CIVIL WAR BUT THE
SAUDI DECISION TO GO IN MARCH
TOOK IT TO A QUALITATIVELY
DIFFERENT LEVEL OF VIOLENCE AND
DISRUPTION.
>> Reporter: AMBASSADOR, WHAT
CAN THE U.S. DO HERE CONSIDERING
THAT I MEAN DO WE SEE LISTEN,
WE'RE NOT GOING TO SELL YOU
THESE WEAPONS IF YOU'RE GOING TO
USE THEM IN THIS WAY BECAUSE
CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE
UNFORTUNATELY ARE ALL OF THESE
CIVILIANS, HORRIBLE
DISPLACEMENTS, DEATHS.
EVEN DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS HAS
ESSENTIALLY PULLED OUT OF
SEVERAL HOSPITALS IN THE
NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY
BECAUSE THEY DON'T FEEL SAFE
FROM THESE AIR STRIKES.
>> THERE'S A FAMINE IN YEMEN AND
I THINK I WOULD CALL IT AN
IMPOSED FAMINE AS OPPOSED TO THE
SAUDI AIR STRIKES.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY CHILDREN
HAVE DIED.
WE KNOW THAT IT IS A FAIRLY
EXTREME FAMINE.
THERE'S MALARIA, THREE CHOLERA,
THERE'S DENGUE FEVER, AND OVER
100 MEDICAL FACILITIES INCLUDING
DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS HAVE
BEEN HIT.
AND SO THERE'S A HUMANITARIAN
CAPACITY GOING ON THERE.
I KNOW THAT QUITE RECENTLY THE
UNITED STATES THE WHITEHOUSE
STAYED THAT THERE IS NO BLANK
CHECK FOR SAUDI ACTIONS AND
SECRETARY KERRY IN LONDON
OBVIOUSLY THE FOCUS OF HIS
TALKS WAS SYRIA WAS TRYING TO
HAVE AT LEAST A CEASE-FIRE SO
HUMANITARIAN FOOD, WATER, FUEL,
MEDICINE CAN GET INTO 20 MILLION
YEMENIS WHO ARE IN DIRE
STRAITS.
>> Reporter: THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CONFLICTS IN
SYRIA AND YEMEN WERE THE FOCUS
OF DIPLOMATIC TALKS TODAY IN
LONDON LED BY SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY AND BRITISH FOREIGN
SECRETARY BORIS JOHNSON.
JOINED BY THEIR COUNTERPARTS
FROM 8 OTHER NATIONS IN EUROPE
AND THE MIDDLE EAST, KERRY AND
JOHNSON SAID THE U.S. AND U.K.
ARE WEIGHING TOUGHER ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS ON SYRIA TO PRESSURE
THE GOVERNMENT TO HALT ITS SIEGE
ON REBEL-HELD ALEPPO, SYRIA'S
LARGEST CITY.
THEY ALSO CALLED FOR AN
IMMEDIATE CEASEFIRE IN YEMEN'S
CIVIL WAR.
THE IRAQI ARMY DROPPED TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF LEAFLETS TODAY OVER
MOSUL, IN ADVANCE OF AN
ANTICIPATED MILITARY ASSAULT ON
THE COUNTRY'S SECOND LARGEST
CITY.
MOSUL HAS BEEN UNDER THE CONTROL
OF ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS FOR
TWO YEARS, BUT FOR MONTHS THE
IRAQI ARMY, AIDED BY THE U.S.,
HAS BEEN PREPARING TO TRY TO
TAKE THE CITY BACK.
THE LEAFLETS SAID CIVILIANS
WOULD NOT BE TARGETED AND WARNED
THEM TO STAY AWAY FROM IRAQI
ARMY UNITS AND KNOWN ISIS
LOCATIONS IN MOSUL.
ABOUT 900 FIREFIGHTERS ARE
WORKING TO CONTAIN A GROWING
WILDFIRE IN NEVADA.
THE FIRE BETWEEN RENO AND CARSON
CITY HAS SPREAD TO MORE THAN
FIVE MILES AND IS TWENTY PERCENT
CONTAINED.
IT HAS DESTROYED 40 HOMES AND
BUILDINGS AND IS THREATENING 500
MORE.
THE FIRE BROKE OUT FRIDAY AND
HAS BEEN WHIPPED BY WINDS
NEARING 70 MILES AN HOUR.
ANOTHER NEVADA WILDFIRE-- WHICH
FORCED RESIDENTS TO EVACUATE
500 HOMES NEAR THE SOUTHERN END
OF LAKE TAHOE-- WAS 80%
CONTAINED YESTERDAY.
EMERGENCY CREWS WORKED TODAY TO
RESTORE POWER TO SOME 40,000
HOMES IN WASHINGTON STATE AND
OREGON-- HIT YESTERDAY BY THE
REMNANTS OF A PACIFIC OCEAN
TYPHOON.
THE STORM BROUGHT 55-MILE-AN-
HOUR WINDS AND HEAVY RAINS TO
THE SEATTLE AND PORTLAND
METROPOLITAN AREAS, DOWNING
TREES AND POWER LINES AND
BLOCKING CITY ROADS.
DESPITE THE DAMAGE, THE STORM
WAS WEAKER THAN PREDICTED.
MEET A SAUDI ARTIST WHO IS USING
ILLUSTRATION TO PROTEST MALE
GUARDIANSHIP LAWS IN HER
COUNTRY.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
FINALLY IN NIGERIA, 20 GIRLS
KIDNAPPED BY THE ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS REA UNITED WITH THEIR
FAMILIES TODAY.
THIS WAS THE GOVERNMENT'S FIRST
NEGOTIATED RELEASE WITH THE
GROUP WHICH KIDNAPPED 276 GIRLS
FROM THEIR SCHOOL, TWO
AND-A-HALF YEARS AGO.
BUT NIGERIAN OFFICIALS DENY THEY
SWAPPED ANY PRISONERS FOR THE
GIRLS AND WON'T SAY WHETHER THEY
PAID ANY RANSOM.
ONE MOTHER SAID I NEVER EXPECTED
TO SEE MY DAUGHTER AGAIN AND I
PRAY FOR THOSE GIRLS STILL LEFT
BEHIND.
ABOUT 200 KIDNAPPED GIRLS ARE
STILL UNACCOUNTED FOR.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.